Rubric - Case Study 1

Initial EDA (Overall 5% of DDS Grade)
*	The initial EDA presentation should be well polished as should the visual aids (example: PowerPoint deck)
o	Plots and Charts should be mentioned and/or referred to in the verbal presentation or they 
should not be in the deck.
o	Refrain from writing too much on the slides and / or overloading with information. 
o	Use the information on the slides as an aid not a script.  Points will be deducted for reading 
too much off of the slides.  
o	Plots and Charts should be well labeled. 
o	No code or screen shots of output.
o	Questions 1,3,4,5,6 and 7 should be fully addressed. 
o	In general, points will be deducted for sloppiness and /or incompleteness.  
o	Efforts that completely address each analysis question in an organized, clear and well 
supported manner will receive all or very near full credit.  
o	Keep the presentation under 5 min. 
*	The Initial EDA and Presentation is graded more on completeness rather than correctness.  Your 
professor may give some direction or correction that they will look for in the final presentation.  

Final Analysis (Overall 20% of DDS Grade)
*	The final analysis / presentation includes the EDA (6 questions) plus the additional analysis and 
polished presentation. 
*	All %s below are of the overall 20% grade. 
RMD/ Answer to Analysis Questions - 60%
*	Each team member will receive the same grade for the analysis / RMD and possibly analysis on 
PowerPoint deck (if same deck is used.)  If there is division of labor, it is assume that the each team 
member is double checking and is very familiar with the response to every analysis question.  
*	9 Analysis Questions: not equally weighted.  The harder questions are worth more points.  
*	Taking off for cumulative errors will not be a thing, provided the answer is well-reasoned based on 
prior questions' answers.
*	Documentation: Answers should be in a well commented and explained RMarkdown file. 
YouTube Presentation - 20%	
*	Communication and presentation of your findings are critical to being a successful data scientist.  You will 
be graded on:
o	Voice inflection
o	Content Knowledge
o	Slide Organization / Content
o	Visualization 
o	Periodic eye contact and general interest in your audience. (Your face must be visible during 
the presentation.)
o	Composure: This will be mostly not reading off of the slides.  
o	Pace: Not going a second over 7 minutes.  The CEO and CFO are very strict on this point.  
Note: While each member of the team will receive the same grade on the RMD / Answer to the analysis 
questions, they will receive a different grade on thier presentation.  One member's presentation will not affect 
anyone else's presentation grade. Each member of the team should present solutions to all 9 questions.  You 
may develop the slides for the presentation together and use the same deck or you may make your own slides, 
but each team member must make their own video (7 minutes or less) and post it to YouTube separately 
(unique URL).       
GitHub - 10%
*	Sensible structuring (location) of files in repository
*	Presence of Powerpoint, Rmd and knit files in the repo.  
*	Readme/Codebook
Peer Grading - 10% 
*	Send a review of your performance and your teammate's performance to 2DS.  You will do this twice 
during the project: one will be turned in to 2DS Unit 8 and again in Unit 9.  Honest (but not rude) 
appraisal is fair game.  Your review will not be shared with your teammate.  Give them a score from 0 
to 10.  Most people should fall between a 6 to 10 (D to A) range.  5 or lower (F) is reserved for 
particularly difficult teammates.  Grade your own effort on this metric as well.
o	This metric should not be a measure of your partner's coding ability, but the amount of effort 
they put in.  If they are well-meaning but make mistakes, that is not cause to dock them 
points.  It should be reserved for no-shows, careless work, or laziness.  
o	Make yourself available and accountable.  By signing up for this course, you committed and 
will need to make time to work on the project.  We are all busy adults; you must manage your 
time well and meet halfway on your partner's schedule.
o	Failure to turn in a review will result in a zero for this section.

